Let's dive into geolocation next
and I already start on the MDN page of the geolocation object,
that's another web API we may access to get the user position.
Now as you can see, support is pretty decent,
even Internet Explorer 9 has it,
boy.
Now on mobile, it's also pretty good,
so getting access to the user position location shouldn't be too hard
and actually the geolocation API, of course a link to this article can be found in the last lecture, the
geolocation API allows you to not only get the current position,
what we'll do,
you can also watch a position to follow the user, to show that on a map or something, we'll use the current
position.
So that's geolocation API and where we can use it,
now let's use it. Now for that, we need to get access to the button with which we want to fetch this position,
that will be the button we have in our mobile here,
get location.
That's the button I'm interested in
which will allow me to get the location of the user,
it has the location button ID. We'll also need access to that location loader element which is just a
spinner provided by that third-party library we're using, material-design-lite, to show some loading animation
whilst we're fetching the location.
So location button and location loader, let's add them in feed.js.
I'll add two new variables, the location button,
I get it by using document.querySelector and then ID location-btn was the ID and the loader, location
loader equals document.querySelector
and then there it was location-loader as ID, with a dash between these words.
So now we get access to both,
now initially I want to hide that loader, so I'll go to feed.css and add a quick rule that inside create post,
I'll basically also say create post location loader should also have a display of none initially. Now in
feed.js,
I want to listen to clicks on the location button and I'll add that code maybe right below our
initialization here.
So there, I'll add location, not loader, location button and
add an event listener to a click event of course where we execute this function in which I want to get
the user location.
Now one thing I'll do before I write the code here, we'll probably show the loader at some point of time
and then hide the button,
so in the code where we close the modal, where we reset everything, I want to make sure that I now again
show the button in case it was hidden
in the meantime,
so I'll set it to inline here
and then I don't show the loader because maybe it was showing before.
So that should be none,
so that I'm back to my initial setup.
Now with that in place, let's go back to fetching the location.
Now what do we want to do inside that click listener here on the location button?
Well first of all, we need to check if we do have access to the location, to the geolocation service and
maybe we do that in the place where we open that modal, where we initialize the media,
why don't we also initialize the location here?
So let's quickly create that function, I'll add it right below this event listener here,
so here we initialize location and
what I want to do here is
I want to check if we have the geolocation object in the navigator,
to be precise I'll check the opposite.
If we don't have it, then I don't want to show this button,
so the location button, I'll set the display to none because there's no need in showing it, the user
can't use it, it won't do anything,
so that is how I initialized the location.
So therefore if the button gets clicked, it was showing up and we can assume the user has access
and of course in theory you could enable it by changing the styles in the elements tab in the developer
tools
but if you're doing that, you're not a normal user and yes it's OK if you then just fail, fetching your location,
chances are you have a modern browser then anyways.
So this code here should only get executed if we do have access to geolocation, of course
feel free to simply put in another test and return in case you don't have access.
So here I'm positive that we do have access to the geolocation,
the next thing of course is we want to get the current position. For that,
I'll use my navigator and then call geolocation get current position.
Now by simply calling this, the user will also get prompted to grant permission.
Now if he denies it, the error callback will be executed,
if he accepts it, we will continue
and in the future the user will not be prompted again unless he just skip the decision of course.
So just as with the camera here, we automatically prompt for permission when it's necessary.
So here, we get two callbacks,
the first one is a function where we get the position,
that's our success callback.
The second argument we pass to get current position is the error callback,
for example this fires if permission is denied,
so we can output the exact error we got here to get more information.
Of course this will also error if we think we have geolocation access and we don't. We also have a third
argument which is a Javascript object where we can configure this call.
Now you can check this MDN article I highlighted earlier to see which options we have here.
Now one very useful option I want to set up is the timeout property in this object.
Timeout allows us to specify how long we try to get a location, a position.
Now of course this shouldn't be too short,
this is in milliseconds by the way
but if it's super long, then you may just be looking and looking and there is just no GPS signal and it will
fail after three minutes or something like that.
So 1000 would be one second,
so maybe we set this to 7000 and feel free to choose any amount you want.
So here I'll give it seven seconds to find a position and thereafter, it will fail.
Now if it fails, maybe we start with this case, now before it even fails, we need to do something else.
We click the button and we know we have access to the location,
so we want to hide the button and show that spinner. So I can reach out to the location button and set
the display to none,
excuse me, I want to hide the button but the loader, there I'll set the display to block to show it.
Now if you fail, I can theoretically show that button again but chances are it won't work,
still I can set the display to inline again and hide the loader.
So location loader, here I'll set the style to none.
So the user could click the button again and try again or always enter a manual location of course.
Now what I also want to do is, I may want to throw an alert where I say couldn't fetch location,
please enter manually, something like that, to inform the user they we're having issues.
Now I also will add a new variable at the top which I'll name fetchedLocation and this fetchedLocation
is undefined initially, here
I'll also then set fetchedLocation to null again.
Now in this case here that we got a position,
now of course we can use it.
So here I still want to re-enable the button and disable the loader because we're done loading,
we also could output the position object but I can also tell you what's inside of it, here
I then want to set fetchedLocation equal to position and there we have coords and then we have latitude
and longitude. Now I'll only use the latitude for a reason,
I don't want to disclose my position here.
Now of course you can use both,
you can use a Javascript object here.
Now of course you could take the position coordinates, latitude and longitude and use something like
Google geocoding API, link to which can be found in the last lecture of this module.
There you can send latitudes and longitudes to them and they will give you back a valid address which
you could then store, of course to really finish that thought,
you would also have to make sure to handle this when you are offline,
so also handle this with your service worker.
Definitely an advanced practice you can do. Here
I want to keep it simple because these are all things we already covered.
So what I'll do here is I'll simply store the latitude in the fetchedLocation and I want to set my location
input value equal to the latitude or to the fetched address you might have, here
I'll simply write in Munich as a dummy value, which I'll of course always use while I'm sitting in Munich,
of course in a real app you would want to fetch that data from Google's geocoding API or something comparable.
Now with that, I also will reach out to location input and on the CSS class list, I'll add the isFocused class,
this is required by the third-party library I'm using to make it look correctly
once you manually set the value, so make sure to add isFocused with the add operator on the class list
property on our location input.
With all that set, we stored the fetchedLocation in extra variable and we adjusted our input value.
Now I want to pass this new extra variable also to our back-end so that we would have the raw coordinates
there too because in a real app, you could think that you have one object here, where you have a fetchedLocation
let's say with latitude and then longitude which I'll set to zero here but you could fetch it from the
coordinates
and of course for the fallback case here, it would be maybe an object where you have
latitude null and longitude null
and now you could send the raw coordinates along with the parsed address.
That's why I'm having this set up here too.
Now with that, let's adjust our HTTP calls to also send these coordinates.
Let's start in the feed.js file, in the part where we store it in indexedDB for synchronization,
there I'll add my raw location property which is my fetchedLocation.
With that, in send data, I of course want to append something, I want to append my raw location here,
to be precise my raw location latitude which is the fetchedLocation latitude and I copy this
to have my raw location longitude and in the service worker, we'll use the values from indexedDB.
So there, I'll also go down to that sync listener,
and on that sync listener here, I also want to have my,
just to keep the names, raw location lat and lng,
so let's quickly append that here
and here it's of course dt.rawLocation.lat and dt.rawLocation.lng,
raw location is what we're storing in indexedDB
here in feed.js.
So now I'm accessing this here to also store it in the database alongside with my dummy position which
I'm always entering when I fetch a location.
Now that's all nice, that was a lot of work,
let's test it.
So let's head over to the application
and let's reload it to install the new service worker which should update since we changed the file.
Let's then close the tab and open a new one to activate it as always
and let's open our modal and let's try fetching the location.
I'm prompted to allow this, so I will click yes
and now let's see, if it manages to do this within seven seconds.
Looks good,
it fetched Munich here, somehow didn't fix that bug,
I'll have to look into that.
Now let me smile at the camera
and send something
and now let's post this to the server and see if it works.
If we go to the database there,
we got a new post in Munich,
test location,
however our raw data is missing.
Now the reason for this is simple,
we're not handling it on the server.
In the index.js file where we stored something in the database, we're not handling this raw location
which is coming in.
So that's something I want to fix too.
So in our server side code, let's enter raw location and that can be a Javascript object here where
we have a latitude which should be fields.rawLocation.lat and longitude which should be
fields.rawLocation.lng.
So these are just the two properties
I also do pass, rawLocation.lat and lng,
that is what I am appending here to my incoming post data.
So now we should store this in a rawLocation object in the database, let's simply deploy this to
Firebase to see this again, of course this takes some seconds.
Regarding the other bug with isFocused,
let me quickly have a look at that too.
The issue there is this isFocused thing shouldn't be added to the location input,
it should be added to the wrapping div,
so in our index.html file, here is the location input and isFocused needs to be added to this div,
so with the ID manual location here. Now we can simply select this with the ID manual location and add
the class to that.
So in feed.js let me quickly go here,
use document.querySelector and select this element to now add isFocused to its class list,
so that's the wrapping div, not the input element.
Now with that, let's wait for this deployment here to finish.
It is finished, great,
so now let's go back to our application,
we need to bump up the static cache version since I changed something in Javascript without changing
the service worker.
Let's reload to install the new service worker as always
and let's then quickly reopen the tab,
there you can see our test location by the way
and let's now try it out. So time to smile
and time to test location again by fetching it here
and let's now hit post.
So now this looks better,
you saw it automatically updated this to not have this bug anymore
and on the database there, we should also see that we got a new post which also has a raw location
object
and longitude is simply set to zero because I hardcode that.
So this is what we have here, now
there are two things I want to fix.
One is that the camera stays on, as you can see here indicated by this record
icon, even if I close the modal, I want to close the camera if the modal is closed and the other thing
is that I want to test if the location also works correctly for offline because it shouldn't be able
to fetch the location then if we have absolutely no connection
even though GPS
maybe, then it should correctly fallback.
So this is something I'll try and test in the next video.